the doctrine of the origin of our several domestic races from several
aboriginal stocks, has been carried to an absurd extreme by some
authors. they believe that every race which breeds true, let the
distinctive characters be ever so slight, has had its wild prototype.
at this rate there must have existed at least a score of species of
wild cattle, as many sheep, and several goats, in europe alone, and
several even within great britain. one author believes that there
formerly existed eleven wild species of sheep peculiar to great
britain! when we bear in mind that britain has now not one peculiar
mammal, and france but few distinct from those of germany, and so with
hungary, spain, etc., but that each of these kingdoms possesses
several peculiar breeds of cattle, sheep, etc., we must admit that
many domestic breeds must have originated in europe; for whence
otherwise could they have been derived? so it is in india. even in the
case of the breeds of the domestic dog throughout the world, which i
admit are descended from several wild species, it cannot be doubted
that there has been an immense amount of inherited variation; for who
will believe that animals closely resembling the italian greyhound,
the bloodhound, the bull-dog, pug-dog, or blenheim spaniel, etc.-so
unlike all wild canidaeâ€”ever existed in a state of nature? it has
often been loosely said that all our races of dogs have been produced
by the crossing of a few aboriginal species; but by crossing we can
only get forms in some degree intermediate between their parents; and
if we account for our several domestic races by this process, we must
admit the former existence of the most extreme forms, as the italian
greyhound, bloodhound, bull-dog, etc., in the wild state. moreover,
the possibility of making distinct races by crossing has been greatly
exaggerated. many cases are on record showing that a race may be
modified by occasional crosses if aided by the careful selection of
the individuals which present the desired character; but to obtain a
race intermediate between two quite distinct races would be very
difficult. sir j. sebright expressly experimented with this object and
failed. the offspring from the first cross between two pure breeds is
tolerably and sometimes (as i have found with pigeons) quite uniform
in character, and every thing seems simple enough; but when these
mongrels are crossed one with another for several generations, hardly
two of them are alike, and then the difficulty of the task becomes
manifest.